Hello and welcome back
to the course on deep learning.
Today we're going to wrap up with backpropagation.
Alright, so we already know pretty much everything
we need to know about what happens in the neural network.
We know that there's a process called forward propagation,
where information is entered into the input layer
and then is propagated forward to get our y-hats,
our output values.
And then we compare those to the actual values
that we have in our training set
and then we calculate the errors.
Then the errors are back-propagated through the network
in the opposite direction and that allows us
to train the network by adjusting the weights.
So, the one key important thing to remember here
is that backpropagation is an advanced algorithm
driven by very interesting and sophisticated mathematics
which allows us to adjust the weights,
all of them at the same time,
all of the weights are adjusted simultaneously.
So, if we were doing this manually,
or if we were coming up with a different type of algorithm,
then even if we calculated the error
and then we were trying to understand
what effect each of the weights has on the error,
we'd have to somehow adjust each of the weights
independently or individually.
The huge advantage of backpropagation,
and this is a key thing to remember,
is that during the process of backpropagation,
simply because of the way the algorithm is structured,
you are able to adjust all of the weights at the same time.
So you basically know which part of the error
each of your weights in the neural network
is responsible for.
Now, that is the key fundamental, underlying principle
of backpropagation and this was why it picked up
so rapidly in the 1980's, and this was a major breakthrough.
And if you'd like to learn more about that
and how exactly the mathematics works in the background,
then a good article which we've already mentioned
is the Neural Networks and Deep Learning.
It's actually a book by Michael Nielsen.
There you'll find the mathematics written out
and it'll help you understand how exactly this is possible.
But for now, for our purposes,
from an intuition point of view,
the important part is to remember that
that's what backpropagation does,
it adjusts all of the weights at the same time.
And now we're going to just wrap everything up
with a step by step walkthrough
of what happens in the training of a neural network.
Alright, so step one, we randomly initialize the weights
to small numbers close to zero but not zero.
We didn't really focus on the initialization of weights
during the intuition tutorials,
but the weights have to start somewhere
and they are initialized with random values near zero
and from there, through the process of forward propagation
backpropagation these weights are adjusted
until the error is minimized.
Til the cost function is minimized.
Then, step two, input the first observation of your dataset
for the first row into the input layer,
each feature is one input node.
So basically take the columns
and put them into the input nodes.
Step three, forward propagation, from left to right,
the neurons are activated in a way that
the impact of each neuron's activation
is limited by the weights.
So the weights basically determine
how important each neuron's activation is.
Then propagate the activations
until getting the predicted result, y-hat in this case.
So, basically you propagate from left to right.
You go all the way until you get to the end
and you get your y-hat.
Then compare the predicted result to the actual result.
Measure the generated error.
Then you do the backpropagation from right to left,
the error is back-propagated.
Update the weights according to how much
they are responsible for the error.
Again you are able to calculate that because of
the way that backpropagation algorithm is structured.
The learning rate decides by how much we update the weights.
Learning rate is parameter you can control
in your neural network.
Step six, repeat steps one to five
and update the weights after each observation.
That is called Reinforcement Learning, and in our case,
that was Stochastic Gradient Descent.
Or repeat steps one to five but update weights
only after a batch of observations, so Batch Learning.
It's either Full Gradient Descent or Batch Gradient Descent
or Mini Batch Gradient Descent.
And step seven, when the whole training set
passed through the Artificial Neural Network,
that makes an epoch, redo more epochs.
So basically, you just keep doing that and doing that
and doing that, allow your neural network to train better
and better and better and constantly adjust itself
as you minimize the cost function.
So, there we go, those are the steps you need to take
to build your artificial neural networks and train it.
And these are the steps that you will be taking together
with Hadelin in the practical tutorials.
Wish you the best of luck,
and I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then, enjoy Deep Learning.